Rhesus Monkey Layer 3 Pyramidal Neurons: V1 vs PFC (Amatrudo, Weaver
et al. 2012)

README for the models associated with the paper

Amatrudo JM, Weaver CM, Crimins JL, Hof PR, Rosene DL, Luebke JI.
Influence of highly distinctive structural properties on the
excitability of pyramidal neurons in monkey visual and prefrontal
cortices.  In Press, J Neurosci (2012).

These files were contributed by Christina Weaver [christina.weaver at
fandm.edu] and build off the model by Vetter et al. (2001), running
under the NEURON simulation environment.
 
Summary:

Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and high-resolution 3D morphometric
analyses of layer 3 pyramidal neurons in in vitro slices of monkey
primary visual cortex (V1) and dorsolateral granular prefrontal cortex
(dlPFC) revealed that neurons in these two brain areas possess highly
distinctive structural and functional properties. ... Three-dimensional
reconstructions of V1 and dlPFC neurons were incorporated into
computational models containing Hodgkin-Huxley and AMPA- and
GABAA-receptor gated channels. Morphology alone largely accounted for
observed passive physiological properties, but led to AP firing rates
that differed more than observed empirically, and to synaptic
responses that opposed empirical results. Accordingly, modeling
predicts that active channel conductances differ between V1 and dlPFC
neurons. The unique features of V1 and dlPFC neurons are likely
fundamental determinants of area-specific network behavior. The
compact electrotonic arbor and increased excitability of V1 neurons
support the rapid signal integration required for early processing of
visual information. The greater connectivity and dendritic complexity
of dlPFC neurons likely support higher level cognitive functions
including working memory and planning.

------------------------------------------------

This model can be auto-launched from modeldb or run by starting the
mosinit.hoc with:

nrngui mosinit.hoc

or double clicking on the mosinit.hoc file after the mod files have
been compiled (nrnivmodl compiles in unix, mknrndll in mswin, mac)

Select a subfigure by clicking on a figure name.
